welcome to madman today way where hey
can you stop thank you stop that that's
amazing
stop it stop it I know you're an idiot
[Music]
today we're talking about the thorny
issue of map copying as everyone knows
it's not a nice feeling when you've
worked very hard on something and
somebody steals it like that time I
painstakingly drew a fake map of the
India Bangladesh border and it turned up
in an episode of geography now in the
olden days map making was an expensive
and time-consuming business
when finished Piersol created the iconic
eh-2-zed of London in 1936 she had to
get up at 5 a.m. and walk around for 18
hours every day writing down all the
street names but thanks to finish his
hard work if I want to make my own map
of London today all I have to do is copy
her map and then give it a catchy title
like the top to bottom alphabetically
index map of London and I'll be rich
no you won't snookums if you try that
you'll be found out how because the
eh-2-zed like many other maps is filled
with trap streets did you just call me
snookums trap streets are unique and
deliberately wrong little details
designed to cause no problem to the map
user but a big problem for anyone trying
to copy it sometimes the cartographer
will make a road more bendy or they'll
deliberately spell one of the names
wrong or most excitingly they'll add
completely non-existent places excuse me
does your map show the village my
girlfriend
of course it's here on page five aha you
stole my map my girlfriend doesn't exist
in the house and never will
clever in theory but are there any real
examples from real map history of where
this has really been dug there really
are in 1936 the official map of Boulder
County Colorado
contained the fictional mount Richard
the name of which was chosen at random
by the maps creator Richard C achi in
1936 a couple of that's the third time
1936 has come up this episode how
strange I used to live in number 36 and
I'm thinking about the number 36 right
now spooky in 1936
Esso created a fake town called agloe on
this empty spot on their map of New York
State but then in the 1950s a shop was
built on that spot and the owners
looking at the Esso map decided to call
it the aglow General Store years later
another map company called Rand McNally
tried to copy
Asajj map and then Esso tried to sue
them but the joke was on SO because
thanks to the general store agloe had
now become a real place and the case was
thrown out another more recent one in
2011 they loved her recent letters the a
a were caught copying an Ordnance Survey
map and were forced to pay twenty
million pounds worth of Justice
apparently the traps on the OS maps were
so sophisticated it allowed copycats to
be caught without publishing anything
really inaccurate os said there are some
publishers who put D liberabit mistakes
in their Maps we don't do that the
problem is trap streets by their nature
are very tricky to find in fact if you
ask map makers if their Maps have any
inaccuracies they deny it
hello hi is your map full of mistakes no
it's not see so we've made it our
mission to set out and find examples of
trap streets that can be seen in
up-to-date maps you can buy today right
off we go wait if you can teleport why
are we gonna come there's one according
to the 2005 A to Z there's a road going
through this park called Whitfield Road
but there isn't no there isn't
aha this here is book muse but the
eh-2-zed calls it brook muse Jiki google
maps says there should be an entire town
called Olivet um here but in real life
it's just an empty field but of course
it's pretty easy to catch out a Google
Maps truck street because all you have
to do is click satellite view and anyone
who wants to make their own map can just
copy that which is basically what
everyone doesn't nobody cares if you can
think of any traps trees that we've
missed and want to mention it in the
comments section below don't don't don't
don't don't don't don't don't
Thanks don't
[Music]
J why their countries in my cereal
those are my passwords what that's not a
good enough explanation well I've got so
many I need to store them somewhere
there's my email bank account social
media your bank account how am I
supposed to remember them all well you
clearly haven't heard of dashlane I have
now what's - Lane - Lane is the only
tool you need to stay safe online it
stores all your passwords and personal
info in one place so does my cereal box
yes but that Lane is easy to use it
generates ultra secure passwords with
just one click and keeps them stored
safely on any device you have literally
any device - Lane makes everything
easier from managing your financials
online to sharing passwords and
accessing content that would otherwise
be blocked plus it warns you if your
data is compromised and keeps you safe
from hackers that's exactly what I need
can I sign up right away you can do
better than that if you go to - Lane
comm slash madmen you can get battling
now by pressing get - Lane now so you
can have a 30-day free trial of - Lane
premium golly gee whiz thanks for
recommending - Lane and improving my
online experience all I've got to do now
is put my old passwords into - Lane
Finland tastes great
[Music]